pick somebody in your life and you send
them a message asking them how their day
is going on a scale of one to ten and
it's very important that you ask them on
a scale of one to ten for a couple of
reasons you'll actually get more
interesting answer because usually you
know if somebody says a three or an
eight they'll explain it a little bit
and suddenly you're getting a little
more in depth information than you'd
normally get if you would just ask them
how are you doing oh I'm fine I'm tired
or I'm hungry and then when you do get a
reply what you do is you immediately
text back or write back and say is there
anything I can do to make that number
plus one anything I could do to move you
from a three to a four or from an 8 to a
nine and that shows that you are really
willing to take some time and effort to
do you know a little favor it's just a
little boost for your friend we know in
looking at video games that this is one
of the reasons why video games are such
effective relationship management tools
specifically social games like Farmville
or candy crush saga lots of research has
shown that when you play these games
regularly with people you become more
likely to talk to them about non game
topics you do that more frequently and
you're also more likely to ask them for
help with a real-life problem or more
willing to offer them help and the
reason why is the design of the games
supports more frequent interactions
which are really important for building
up that kind of relationship and also to
show reciprocity where you are asking
someone for help or you are offering
help and you think about a game like
Farmville where you can you know go
water some of these crops or feed their
chickens for them or candy crush saga
where I'm constantly asking my in-laws
to send me extra lives and I'm sending
them little power booths in the game
that little act of reciprocity I'm
willing to help you you're willing to
help me and doing it regularly you know
every day or a couple times a week but
firmly cements in somebody's mind the
idea of you as an ally and you might
have people that you want to have
thinking of you that way that aren't
playing any of these video games so the
+1 technique is a way to make sure that
you're talking regularly about these
everyday topics but also that you have a
chance to give a little bit of support
or help just you know what how can I
move you just +1 on this scale something
small that I can do today and it's
something that I do quite often that not
only does it help you know make someone
else's day but I kind of enjoy it when I
get the chance to hear how people are
doing and and just do that one little
thing to make their day better parents
love it parents will love it when you do
that that's like that's like the most
prime audience for this they will like
write you back a paragraph on why it's
an 8 day and then and then you offered
you plus one and they're just like it's
already plus one because you wrote